everybody welcome to impact theory he
were here my friends because you believe
that human potential is nearly limitless
but you know that having potential is
not the same as actually doing something
with it so our goal with this show and
company is to introduce you to the
people and ideas that will help you
actually execute on your dreams all
right today's guest is a human lie
detector who has dedicated her life to
cracking the code on interesting human
behavior a Certified Fraud examiner body
language expert and author of human lie
detection and body language 101 she has
literally written a book on reading
people she has traveled the world as a
speaker presenting your findings to
prestigious universities and fortune 500
companies and she's been featured on NPR
The Today Show The Wall Street Journal
any ton of other media outlets but
saying that doesn't even scratch the
surface of what makes her so special the
self-described
recovering awkward person didn't just
read a few books call herself an expert
and start blogging she founded her own
research lab conducted hundreds if not
thousands of her own studies and as the
lead researcher at the science of people
she is amassed what is arguably one of
the most arresting sets of science fact
insights into human behavior that I have
ever seen every video every article
every page of her books will leave your
jaw hanging wide open with their
transformative use ability she is
transparent super authentic and never
afraid to ask an inappropriately
intimate question for the benefit of all
of us and all of that gives her work in
a reverent sparkle that makes it truly
captivating whether you want to
understand yourself or others better
she's got the data-driven goods you've
been looking for so please help me in
welcoming the woman who used to hide in
the bathroom to avoid people at parties
and is now the most captivating person
in most any room the author of the
enthralling book captivate the science
of succeeding with people Vanessa van
Edwards
[Applause]
good to have you on the show that was a
perfect hug yes that was wonderful I
mean discussed it beforehand now it is
important I like practicing hugs and
handshakes because you have that awkward
moment that's like are we gonna are
going to handshake hug side hug that was
time what was everyone's squiggle
squiggle yeah that was I not heard of
that but as soon as you showed me what
it was little is typically to women but
not always so a squiggle is a moving hug
it's like a moving cuddle so if some
people go hug whoo that's a squeeze oh
yeah you know what I mean Google's in my
life I'm not be really honest I've
witnessed them you know I think you
might like it you think like I mean it's
kind of like you know it's like a bear
hug but there's movement in it it's like
a dance we could swig 'el at the end if
you give it a shot that is change I yeah
and we should also come up with a name
for that hug that were someone hugs and
they go the pat pat pat pat pat pat pat
pat pat yeah I do that one a lot you do
that one our man-to-man
let's have that's a pattycake hug though
I've got a weird thing with um so like
my wife my wife will just set her hand
on me for me my hand has to be moving to
show attention Oh which is partly what I
think I do the pat on the back thing but
then I've seen that made fun of so well
thing is is so padding from a nonverbal
perspective it's an interesting
nonverbal move so I don't know if yeah
I'm a little time I know yeah I should
tell you you should know so so padding
if it's done from above it's often a
dominant gesture okay
so think about a dog right what do we do
we pat a dog's head think about a child
we say good job good boy so if it's done
equally like you know oh wow it's good
to see you it's not so bad but just be
careful you're not like that that I
don't do right so and you'll notice that
it's actually quite a demeaning gesture
there's certain politicians you might
have seen out there that will yeah just
a few and then they will Pat they will
pat on the upper shoulders on the upper
back it's a way of saying good boy or
good girl it's a very subtle nonverbal
cue but usually the equal Pat which I
think I don't know anything about
pattycake
oh that's not good man enough yeah I
don't I don't
your facial doesn't look so good I've
never had the instinct to do that but
like the one-handed like
I would say 90% of my hugs incorporate
of hat yeah maybe that's a bro hug yeah
a brug the bro
let's Jesse that's Joe I like naming
everything I name I named car turns I
name hugs are like creating market into
that because it's actually pretty
fascinating so what I love is that so my
core belief about human existence is
that you can learn virtually anything
yes you've come a long way from being
the awkward person do you think people
can learn anything I think people can
learn anything I think however you have
a spectrum of how much you can improve
so like let's say for example a sports -
the easiest way to think about this so
let's say for example you are a very
lightweight compact male under 5 foot
you would make a great jockey right like
you'd be great at riding horses if
you're small and compact could you learn
to be a basketball player 100% but your
ability or your percent improvement is
going to only going to be able to
improve so much and you're gonna have to
work much harder for that compared to
say a six foot seven man who's going to
have to work a little bit less hard to
be able to dunk shots because he just is
closer to them closer the men hunting if
you think about it that way it's how
much work do you have to get there so do
you think that part of why you've been
able to get as good as you have with
breaking the stuff down because you had
to learn it or do you think there's some
another another innate skill that you
have this allowed for that I think it's
because and maybe other recovering
awkward people out there will feel this
way if you are recovering awkward person
and I don't mean introvert because not
you know introverts do not have to be
awkward
although I am introverted we are very
good at observing now what happens is is
we see interactions in very black or
white ways if you are naturally
charismatic or naturally go-to people
you can walk into a room you name have
to think about a conversation starter
whereas if you're awkward a room looks
like either battlefield or a playground
depending on your mentality and so if
you see a room like a battle vendor or a
playground you're instantly looking for
who's on your team you're looking for
patterns you're looking for a verbal
weapons they're looking for different
kinds of things than someone will just
walk into them and naturally have it
so I think that what's helped is that I
tend to see every interaction that way
which has helped me study in a formulaic
way I was different what what drew you
to like the science the study I mean not
a lot of people start their own research
lab so I was a journalist so I was just
writing stories and I loved science I
fir from a very young age my parents
encouraged the academic side the book
smarts the IQ and I think I totally
forgot about the people smart side the
PQ thing so I you had all this ability
to read 20 pages emic studies and find
some usable nugget so I started to write
about that for different blogs and
journals out there and I realized that
the one thing that was differentiating
me anyone could write you know an
article about science the one thing that
could change what I was writing is if I
tested things on myself so I either
became a human guinea pig or I was able
to actually do research in the real
world because most studies are based on
20 college seniors who want academic
credit for a psychology class they're
not representative of the whole
population so I thought if there was one
thing that could differentiate this
article from every other journalist it
would be adding my own take on it it was
actually a differentiator came from a
place of trying to differentiate my work
from other journalists out there and
then of course a personal need that I
had to try to solve people which I don't
know if it's possible that I'm certainly
still trying interesting to solve people
what he mean by that
I loved in math class where you'd be
working on a math problem and the
teacher would be like okay here's a
formula for you right it was like being
given a cipher you know it's like the
most powerful thing I thought what if
there was a cipher for people like what
if there was a way of formula for people
and so I have something that I call the
matrix as a little bit different in the
kontiki ah no reason reason matrix which
I believe that every person has a cipher
they have a set of values you can solve
without them that if you turn it in the
right ways you can figure out how to
figure out their motivations how to
figure out their values how to speak to
them since they'll listen how to make
them feel loved and so that's the
closest I've come to actually solving
people and it's the only way that I
found to interact successfully and when
you say solve though you thing to be
able to have like a useful interaction
or to not
not be so baffled by people's choices I
don't know I don't know if this is a
pain point for you but I was constantly
feeling like I didn't understand what
people were coming from or they would be
making choices I didn't understand why
I'm especially with friendships and so I
found that if I can figure out how
they're coded how they're wired no
longer do their decisions and their
actions become baffling right so give us
some of those things so in fact let me
you and I were talking about this but
let me break it down for you at home hi
so the way that I normally prepare for
an interview is very different than the
way that I will go through a book for a
book review and started the book on an
international flight so I had plenty of
time and started it just to read it as
part of my interview prep for this
interview and then man like really fast
I was like whoa that was a cool insight
and then that was another one and then
rapidly it just turned into a book
review and I just like went in like all
the different points and how they add up
and just like all the things I wanted in
my own life and started because you and
and this is what I'd really like to talk
about now you start breaking down like
what motivates people with their love
language what's their primary value that
kind of stuff and so I started going oh
my god like what's mine like first of
all I didn't even know mine and I found
it very weird because I consider myself
super sober where I found it so much
easier to identify my wife always then
to identify my own yeah so what are the
like sort of key things to understanding
someone else or yourself yes I like to
think of people a little bit like an
onion and that you know there's
different layers it was exactly it
tastes delicious one okay so the outside
layer I think is the easiest one to
solve that's when we start with so this
is a Big Five personality trait and
there's a lot of personality research
out there the only personality science
that's actually back used by academic
institutions is called ocean or the big
five room so this is someone's openness
so how adventurous they are someone's
conscientiousness how organized they are
some was extraversion that's the one
that we all know how they like being
around people
agreeableness so how they work on teams
if they default to yes or default to no
we can talk about that one if you want
and then neuroticism which is the which
is the one
want to talk about neuroticism is my
favorite it's how someone approaches
worry so that's sort of the first that's
those are the easiest to solve and
actually research has found that I could
look in your wallet for example or I
could open your bedside table and
probably solve a lot of your personality
traits I wish I could do that while we
don't have it not on me
what would you be looking for because I
would give it to you no heartbeat that
would be so fun so we are doing a study
right now actually I've assigned people
where I want people to take pictures of
a couple different assets in their in
their life one their car trunk by the
way if anyone wants to watching lots of
semi pictures of these things I'm happy
to analyze them so their car trunk do
you want me to tell you what mine looks
like yeah it's empty only because my
wife's pressure is unending otherwise it
would be a filthy mess so that tells me
that you are a little higher in
agreeableness because you want to make
your wife happy you were so right I am
like extremely high in agreeableness yes
absolutely and that's so the fact of
Africa I didn't mean to let that slip
out by the way yes I'm just trying to be
honest about the fact that it's clean oh
yeah that energy cover my wife yes okay
so that's so that because that's your
motivation right that was your
motivation there um so your trunk your
medicine cabinet and doesn't have you
can't hide your prescriptions I just
want to see how its organized and how
its laid out within there they have a
message cabinet like stuffed in a drawer
seven in the drawer then maybe medium
and conscientiousness so
conscientiousness is how organized or
how much you like routine okay so it's
like people who are really high in
consciousness this is this is me I I
find making a to-do list like a sport
you know like if I was an Olympic
athlete like I could make to-do list I
could be a champion and now I will put
things on my to-do list just for the
pleasure of checking them off all right
someone's hiding kind of someone over I
got you we are the same yeah like
alphabetizing gives me an adrenaline
rush Wow
you know and I know people jump out of
airplanes you out alphabetizing like
like you know a bunch of books by color
and by author name oh my goodness so
anyway so that's high high high no
changes low and conscientiousness means
you're much more easygoing you're much
more spontaneous you you feel that the
creative process is going with the flow
and actually routine sort of boxes you
in so if you're if your medicine drawer
medicine cabinet is like a little bit
more haphazard you don't really happen
guess you're either medium low and
conscientiousness well it's interesting
it's on very low I'm about as low as you
can get on the conscientiousness scale
it's only because my wife is muddling
your ability to read that's right she
forces me to hide in a drawer yes
otherwise it would just be everywhere
everywhere yeah okay so low and
conscientious memory and then we hate
that name by the way because that one
made me feel weird about being low I
feel like I'm a conscientious person I
think about other people and what their
needs are yes punch in it's funny you
mentioned language so language is a
serious issue so for example the book
has now gotten picked up in ten other
languages and it's a problem thank you
but it's we're trying to figure out
words and for example in Western
cultures there is an ideal personality
type and you will notice that every
romantic comedy the woman is the ideal
personality type for women and the man
is usually the ideal person on a temper
man
so in Western cultures for women it is
high in contentiousness so that sort of
her funny quirk she's really organized
and doesn't like to be spontaneous a
high in agreeableness so yeah whatever
you want sweetie either medium or high
in neuroticism so kind of a worrier but
it's cute and endearing very spontaneous
and extroverted and bubbly and high an
openness adventurous and imaginative
that's like the perfect diode so the
problem is when we talk about in
eroticism neuroticism should not be a
negative word but it is considered
negative because then you're called a
type or controlling and so it's funny
language is actually a huge issue so
consciousness does not mean that you
don't care about people it just means
routine is not your your love like like
some people so anyway at the lab we're
trying to figure out if we can guess
people's personality types or solve
their matrix based on their different
assets in their hands and so far yeah so
we're going to ask for that and then the
funny one is what's on your walls so
we've got the Michael Jordan flu game
okay which is probably my most
meaningful piece of art okay it's all
art so I guess we'll start with that
okay and then mostly movies so matrix
has like three or four appearances yeah
house
and then that's pretty much it so what
they say is that this is a research
according to Sam Gosling he wrote a
great book called snoop which is if
you're a Snooper this is a book for you
so Sam Gosling found that hi neurotics
use more motivational quotes so i am a
high neurotic I'm definitely a warrior
and by the way you know if you're high
in erotic real owner otic if you're
really good at what if scenarios so high
neurotics we love pros and cons lists we
can think through every worst-case
scenario ever whereas low neurotics they
say things like it'll all be fine which
too low neurotic is like the worst thing
that you can say because we believe that
worrying is like an investment account
if you know what I mean
like the more that I worry the less
likelihood it will happen so motive so
high neurotic because you love
motivational quotes because it's like a
external regulator for their internal
world Wow
so I have a lot of motivational quotes
in my office if you didn't have any
which makes me think that you're not
very high neurotic I'm super low
neurotic ah god I'm insanely uh
chemically impacted by motivational
stuff so like I keep a list of quotes
that I find motivational or empowering I
follow a bunch of Instagram accounts
that are all motivational your list of
clothes is it in a book is it covered or
is it for displays in a remote ok so
that means that you are medium or low
neurotic because high neurotics we so
can I get a little science ok so high
neurotics carry a special form of a
certain gene it's called the serotonin
transporter gene so serotonin is a
really important chemical in our body
it's what keeps us calm what keeps us
nice and stable so for example if you're
driving and all of a sudden someone
almost hits you they don't hate you but
they almost on you your adrenaline goes
your cortisol goes you're like oh we
almost got a Coxon a low neurotic like
you will begin to produce serotonin so
your body goes poof we're OK
everything's fine and then a few minutes
later you're back to your music
everything's fine a high neurotic like
me has a harder time
using serotonin we have a longer form of
this transporter gene so we produce less
serotonin and more slowly which means
that my adrenaline cortisol are pumping
for longer than yours so if I'm in the
car with you and I'm like gosh that
driver you're like I believe in hit us
we're good now I'm still an adrenaline
and cortisol but you're calm so what
happens is that we as high neurotics are
not as good at self shooting so we tend
to have reminders external reminders to
tell us to calm down whereas you as a
low neurotic you don't need to see it
you can look at it when you feel like it
when you're curious you pop up on
Instagram or Twitter when you feel like
it
whereas I want to have them everywhere
to remind me I'm okay wow that that is
really interesting it's one of the
things that I found so awesome about
your book was one it was teaching me
about myself but - it was teaching me
about Lisa so and in in the relationship
the ones where you were like okay these
this is probably where you want to be in
agreement where you're both like the
same and then these are ones where you
want to balance and you had talked about
neuroticism and wanting to balance each
other out and we balance each other out
so I'm really low neurotic and she's
very high neurotic not in the Woody
Allen way but like the way you're
talking about yeah are you just like I
get it I think I know it did you like go
through like the thousand ways that this
could go wrong and just be like have a
much harder time like self soothing and
we said self soothing that yeah what's
really interesting so why it's important
to balance you don't have to but there's
actually studies that show that certain
personality traits are better when
they're matching versus opposites so hi
no headaches got a bad rap right
everyone's oh they're the worrier
they're the one who's always like you
know overthinking things you actually
need to have both and the reason for
this is because you're lone erotic you
Tom are wonderful in a crisis so if
there's something bad happening or you
need to get things done you're the one
with the level head you know it's all
going to be okay paint stay steady the
course hi neurotics prevent crises from
happening in the first place what's
funny and so high neurotics need
external reminders to keep them calm so
we like to see our to-do lists or pros
and cons we like to have our Rach nearby
us at our side whereas low neurotics
like to have external reminders of being
need to take care of right because they
they don't have the internal alarm clock
that's constantly screaming at that more
I joked at the pile scream at me you
know from the floor because I can I like
want to get them whereas you might not
see them I literally don't see them I
know I keep my regular day-to-day stuff
in my travel case because I know if I
don't and I travel
it'll never it'll never make it I just
won't remember it yes yes oh so you got
to work around for you and I think this
is what we're talking about here is
knowing how you are wired instead of
fighting it that's interesting cuz I'm a
big believer in fight anything that
doesn't work for you but you could if we
talk about optimize okay so I think I
think what I see a lot and this is what
personal development I'm a self help
addicts right I love every person
development book I love like self health
and transformation the problem is is
that if we feel like we can change
everything we also might not optimize
for how we are naturally wired I'm sure
sorry so the way that I like think about
it is every step in the book you know I
teach a scientific principle I tell a
story she's assigned to the principle
then I give you three steps almost
always step number one is you write
figure out how you're wired before you
work on someone else it's like in a in a
flight they always tell you put your
oxygen mask on before you pick someone
else is the same thing like figure out
your own wiring first so you figure it
out you will not remember so by packing
in that day pack you've now taken out
that worry fix that problem and now you
don't have to worry about it as opposed
to trying to take 15 different classes
on how to be more of a warrior right do
you know what I mean so I think that
figuring out how your spouse is wired
and not trying to change them but rather
trying to set up systems in your home or
systems it for your business partner or
things for your friends know how they're
wired another example is my good friend
Anna Lauren she's watching so she is a
warrior also but if I give her too many
choices she'll get choice paralysis so
instead of trying to teach her how to
make choices for herself and you know go
through a whole you know what paradox of
choice you know lesson plan for her I
know that if I want to go out to dinner
with her I'm better off giving her one
time and only two restaurant choices
right and I know that she likes to see
the menu because she's high
conscientious so by longer dinner
usually I will have an active stir
say hey al you want to go out for dinner
on Monday at 7:00 I think we could do
Thai here's the menu
link or we could do sushi here's the
menu link and she will get back to me
really fast if not what happens is every
day she goes oh yeah but I'm not sure
about this but what about this
restaurant and we ended up rushing on
the plans last-minute are you is this a
two-way street with your friends like
they know I mean obviously they know you
they know you do so they know they're in
the matrix they know they're in the
matrix
yeah but do you like walk them through
like here's how you rate on ocean and
yeah you show them up yes so my closest
friends first my closest friends no it's
to be my friend you know that every time
you hang out with me it might be an
experiment so you have a quote that I
love I would rather live in hard truth
than ignorant bliss yeah and you're
really into radical honesty and how does
that play out in your marriage how does
that play on your friendships yeah so in
my marriage I got very lucky I married
the most honest man I ever met so he is
very direct already so he actually has
helped me in that just very directness
with friends it's hard I had to make the
choice a long time ago when I first
started this work especially with live
affections lie detection is a skill that
is a blessing and a curse a little bit
just because you see inconvenient things
right you see things you didn't expect
to see about yourself or know usually
about other people I think you see in
the personality matrix you see things
about yourself you might not like as
much but with live detection you kind of
see things about other people that you
might not find as convenient
so I yes I find is convenient yes
because what happens is this is what
happened the very beginning of sort of
honing the skill and leveraging it as I
started to see friends who are not only
lying to me but lying to themselves and
I had to make a choice so that either
going to have fewer high quality friends
or less quality but more quantity
friends and this was right at that stage
where I also was trying to figure out
how what kind of friendships that I want
to have on social media and it's the
same I think question that we all have
to ask ourselves I think of social media
friendships like cotton candy I call
these cotton candy friendships so cotton
candy friendships are great
the people that you love seeing at a
party right you see the New York all you
do a squizzle you're so excited to see
them you know they're also the woo girls
you know woo you know you see them and
get excited you would tell like I don't
know without having your yeah that's
okay so yeah yes I'm sure you've seen it
before and they're and they're really
fun to hang out with there's a lot of
substance there's not a lot of nutrition
group you wouldn't text them if you were
going through something hard you
wouldn't you know call them if something
happened to them but it's a fun exciting
friendship the thing is is you
eventually need to have a meal right
like cotton candy is okay every once in
a while but if you have too much of it
your teeth begin to like rot from it you
know you're they ate from the sugar and
you give you a sugar headache and so I
think that it's about what are the
friends that give you nutrition like the
brisket friends and then which of those
friends that are kind of the surface
ones and that was a big decision I had
to make you've talked about breaking up
with friends like so how do you sculpt
that garden of friendship it's so hard
so I think that adult friendships is you
know when you're a teenager everyone's
talking about like bullying and
cyber-bullying
I think that as adults this adult
friendship issue is the next sort of
frontier of talking about how do we
court friends how do we build a
friendship when it's not romantic how do
we break up with a friendship when it's
been too long
and the biggest thing that happens with
friendships is they do go stale and it's
a very weird thing to say but there are
people I'm sure you could make up
someone your life where every time their
number pops up on a text message you're
like I've been awhile I'd better call
them or you know you see them out of
convenience or out of location I think
those are the kind of friendships that
really drain you there's actually a
study that was done on ambivalent
relationship this is so interesting yeah
I'm thinking about ambivalence a lot so
toxic people we get it right we all
understand that we want to get rid of
toxic people that's more obvious the
real danger I think is ambivalent
relationship
so these ambivalent relationships are
the people where either you don't know
how you stand with them you don't know
if they like you or not
and they're also the people where you
don't know if you really enjoy hanging
out them or not have you ever had that
and you're like I'm just going to be fun
was that fun is this fun and those are
the ones that take the more energy there
are
the more dangerous ones because they
tend to repin and stay in so the whole
notion of frenemies I find really really
intriguing and this is something
certainly that I have dealt with in my
life and it was weird to me how until I
read that that it didn't register why
that would be so insidious so what the
study what the science says they did a
research study with police officers and
they asked police officers to identify
the amount of toxic people in their
workplace and the amount of ambivalent
people and they found that the police
officers who had more ambivalent
relationships were sick more often had
less happiness at work and didn't like
their job as much then police officers
who had toxic people just just think
about that for a second and the reason
for this is because if you have a toxic
person boundaries are easy they ask you
go out to lunch you're like no thanks
great like you know it's a no thanks
where's it's an ambivalent person ask
you out to lunch or ask your their
birthday party or you know ask you to
work on something it takes this mental
energy where you have this thing where
you're like like will it be good would I
rather eat alone at my desk or would I
rather have lunch with this person and
it wouldn't snot always easy that's an
incredible drain on our emotional energy
and if you're an introvert or an
ambivert an ambivert is someone who is
kind of split between extraversion
introversion your energy is finite and
our mental space is finite and something
that I did not realize until much more
recently I thought that mental space was
sort of endless right you could learn
forever you could think about things
forever but actually we only have a
certain amount of mental time every day
and if we're dedicating that to trying
to figure out if someone likes us or not
which is a very important thing we all
like to be liked whether we admit it or
not that I think is a waste of mental
energy why would we want to send it
towards that that's why I think I've
ever one people are more dangerous do
you have a checklist because I'm like
thinking back to the people that manage
to become frenemies in my own life it's
kind of scary how long it took me to be
able to put that label on them to like
sort of wake up to the fact that either
they always were or the relationship it
evolved to that a year right year I know
so I don't have a checklist it's
actually just one simple question
sir are you ever doubting that
really happy for you wow that cuts right
to the heart of it I mean that's it that
happens actually quite often like there
are these people who make these very
passive-aggressive comments for your
like was that nice or was that mean if
you're ever questioning that that means
they are not truly happy for you or if
you have a piece of really good news
they really true good friend will mirror
and match that excitement with you
someone who's not as happy for you will
come in with dream killer questions you
know dream killers yeah
dream killer questions are when they
question your success they doubt the
success I think of all the negatives and
dream killers are not always bad
I have dream killers in my life and I
call them when I need someone to poke
holes in a business idea right like I'll
pitch them because they're great
practice but I know that they are not
the people that I go to when I have
something I'm truly excited about so
that's the only question you have to ask
yourself and it might be an inconvenient
truth like don't answer it off the cuff
but don't answer it really quickly like
try to think of all the times in the
last six months that you've seen them
and shared something did you feel like
they were as happy as you were about
your happiness yeah and this is this is
one of those things that has made a big
impact in my life because you can very
slowly especially in business find
yourself in a situation where you don't
know who to trust and I find and maybe
it's a psychic energy like you were
talking our emotional energy for me it
it became a question of emotional safety
hmm where when I know you're my enemy I
don't feel emotionally vulnerable oddly
enough even though I know you may
actively be out to get me like I can
handle that yeah yeah it's when I'm like
giving you my neck if you will enough
and every now and then you actually take
a swipe at it okay I was like ah yeah
that's when you lose sleep
yeah like yes literally I knew and you
sit in bed and you rerun all the things
they've said or you said you will worry
about all the things that could
potentially happen you know we talked
about psychic energy I actually think
that we are this is going to sound so
weird I actually think that we pick up
on more chemically than we realize yeah
talk to me about that okay so I I don't
believe in psychics I don't believe in
psychic energy but I do believe that
things
and beyond our conscious awareness in
this sense there was a study that was
done that looked at fear so what they
did is they took participants to have
them wear sweat pads absorbent sweat
pads and run on the treadmill and the
they collected sweat from these people
running on the treadmill then they had
participants wear sweat pads and jump
out of an airplane for a first-time
skydiving experience okay so they had
sweat pads that were just treadmill
sweat pads and they had first skydiving
sweat pads okay same sweat but is it
really then they had participants in a
lab sit in an fMRI machines their brain
was being scanned and smell kind of
gross both paths they did not know what
they were smelling they had no idea what
they were smelling they found that when
participants smelled the fear sweat pads
the skydiving Club had their own fear
response activated in their brain so
that means that somehow I think that we
can smell emotions so if you are with
someone and they are either they did not
mean well for you or they are planning
on taking a swipe at your neck you
somehow smell that threat and even
though consciously your brain is going
you didn't say anything that in donating
their body language is okay it seems all
okay the other part of your brain the
animal part of your brain which is
firing and fear response or threat
response is going No watch out and
that's what keeps you up at night is
your conscious brain wrestling with the
unconscious part of your brain I think
that's when we talk about being cited
for having premonitions I think that's
actually what's happening we're we're
smelling or picking up on things that we
don't even realize and it's crazy and
yes for clarity sake when I said psychic
energy that means psychic like okay I
also has nuts
that's yeah that is incredibly
interesting I was going to add the other
aspect of this is like facial structure
yes there is a part in the book that had
I'm obsessive were you able to sort of
see the faces were you able to see them
yes and I like to think yeah then I'm
like Jedi level at polarizing cool okay
just from the amount of interviewing
that I've done like I'm totally obsessed
with this versus how much and it scares
me because I think I actually have like
a
I definitely have resting [__]
let's start with that yeah and then on
top of that like when I would explain to
people like what thin slicing is hey
you're walking in a dark alley and you
turn around and you see like this little
old lady and she seems so sweet like you
thin slice immediately not a threat my
brain immediately used the example but
if you turn around and see me you're
going to get freaked out and I thought I
have like a face that like I would thin
slice poorly like oh my god I would not
send slice myself like a loving kind
individual ok ok yeah so I don't think
you're wrong
see I don't care and you're like losing
what you re so sorry I know
oh I'm not in communion shoot but let me
explain why why were you okay so there
is some evidence and again we is there's
a lot of research needs to be done this
but I find it fascinating about in the
womb babies are exposed to mothers
hormones so that could be testosterone
that could be estrogen that could be any
any different varying and those change
or turn on different genes in the baby
so for example the baby was exposed to a
lot of testosterone prenatally they're
going to develop more masculinized
feature both men and women so we know a
face is very masculine if they have a
very very square jaw if they have the
presence of stubble if they have flat
eyebrows and or slightly hooded eyebrows
that's your face ok ok no no no it's a
it's a good thing it's a good thing
because it's a very masculine eyes face
so what you that is 100% right so in the
book I have computer graphics of
incompetent faces - competent faces
dominant not dominant a sister dominant
not competent to competent and then I
think it's trustworthy not just for the
trustworthy so you fall very high on the
dominance scale so if someone turned
around you weren't in a back alley
you look very masculine eyes which means
that you have a lot of testosterone and
typically men with more testosterone are
going to be you know more powerful have
shorter temper
all these things so it's about the shape
of your jaw it's about the hooding of
your eyebrows that and in the presence
of stubble and you wear stubble yeah
yeah so this is I mean this is a good
thing and this is a good thing does it
help that if the little old lady turns
around and I and I actually worry about
it like I distance my like if I find
myself and I know this woman is kind of
a heart attack she sits around like so
I'll start laying down or I'll walk like
over to the side and fast so she can see
hard yeah yes I try to do my neutral
goofy face
which I'm here how is it it's like I got
a large die Brown why you try to like
half smile and I feel like such a
dumbass no no but I'm like I have seen
four so I used to do Speech and Debate
in high school oh yeah and one time like
I crushed it I was so excited and I got
the review back and it was like dude
what is wrong try not to look so angry
and I was like what like I literally
until I read it something there like
yeah dude and you like put your head
down and then look up you look like a
serial killer and I was like what so
literally I go I go in the bathroom
I took my head down and I look up yo
yeah oh oh we do that to a camera cuz
that is it that is yeah that's when I
really that's intense I'm like haha
that's fine yes so yet and but now you
know why right you know it's the shape
of your drawing your face so you what
you did is perfect you optimize how you
were naturally wired right okay right so
it's show me your when did you call it
your goofy silly face like goofy neutral
face I see your goofy musial face again
okay perfect okay can I explain why this
worked with my Thunder perspective okay
so when we raise our eyebrows up it is
the universal sign of interest or
engagement for example if I were in a
bar and go you would know what I meant
if I were to be listening and be like oh
you would know that means I'm like
literally trying to see more write it
the invocation of that so with your
eyebrows up it changes the shape of that
hooded look right so when you're like
this this is a very high testosterone
when you're when your eyebrows are
hooded so when you push them up not only
does it show openness
gage meant curiosity say hi it also
takes away the hooding and you also
slightly open your mouth a little bit
but also softens your jaw so in a way
that takes your face and just makes it
more open I think this is something I
mean this is actually a very good thing
because I think it's part of the reasons
why you are so successful well we like
people who are very powerful who have
high testosterone we like it for both
men and women so your look shows
intensity it shows strength
it shows power so never be angry at how
you are wired your genetics hi your face
looks because that is I think a huge
contributor to your success I feel that
way with everyone we all have things
about our face about our personality
about our body about that we don't like
but I think that if we can frame it as
this has been an asset or it can be an
asset of our success that's extremely
important for example I also have
resting [__] shall we could you
connect repeat myself look at we're
taking you so I should create myself as
well so I have resting [__] and the
reason for this is because my features
angled downwards so at rest this is me
at rest right and I just look like
terrible right I'm just like oh I'm
bored and upset and that is because my
lips whine when they're at rest
angles slightly downwards and my eyes
also angle slightly downwards
even if I'm totally neutrally angled
down so I know that I can look very very
serious that has also helped me because
I am a science researcher right like
it's very important for me to look like
I am taking things seriously as I am so
what I want to be more on or engaged
you'll notice that I actually do my
makeup a very specific way I don't know
if you can see my makeup angle up and I
also put my shadow a little bit above my
brow bone a little bit above my eye to
bring my eyes up that is because I know
that's going to makes me look a little
happier a little less sad a little less
intense so this is something that I know
about myself but I don't think that
that's a bad thing it just mean that I
know I have to counteract a little bit
alright so I want to go back to radical
honesty so what does that look like like
what are you actually saying to your
friends and particular so this means
that instead of making up an excuse I
will just tell them the real reason I
don't want to do something so for
example a good friend of mine was like
hey I have this networking event that
I'm throwing is with a bunch of women in
Oregon I live in Portland you should
definitely come and do a little speaking
thing and it'll be really great instead
of me saying oh I'm really busy all
right I don't really I don't have time
for right now I was like hey I do
terribly at really big loud networking
events you don't want me there like I
get really anxious like it's really hard
for me is there any way that we can do a
luncheon instead we're we're like around
the table where we can like talk sort of
in a more quiet environment so instead
of making up some excuse
actually we'll tell them the real reason
why I do or don't want to do something
and then we try to work around it what
does that look like at work at work oh
so we have a wonderful team so we're
about six people in our lab and we have
a hundred and twenty sign people
trainers so our trainers are body
language trainers they do my curriculum
and there are different cities around
the world so basically what this means
is we have a very direct task management
system so I think this is incredibly
important with your team to a know their
personality matrix so I know everyone on
my team their personality matrix and
also how they like to receive feedback
and how they like to brainstorm so for
example let's say that I have an idea
and I want to do a big brainstorming
session I like to brainstorm out loud
but I know that - my team members do not
so they might say to me if we're in a
big brainstorming session I'm like any
ideas any ideas it's like crickets they
would say to me and they would have
complete permission to do so
hey Vanessa would there be any way that
you could write down these ideas give us
about a week to kind of prepare
something that we could get back
together next Friday I'm not really
ready to brainstorm right now instead of
having a really lame drawn-out 50-minute
session work no one's really throwing
around any ideas so it's a much faster
way to speak to our natural orientations
in the workplace or on our team talk to
me about identifying primary values and
what they are so that you know how to
better deal with people yeah so I I was
always fascinated by motivation in the
workplace especially how do you motivate
a partner how do you motivate a
colleague how do you appeal to their
interests I talked about this in the
book a little bit I always thought that
with colleagues the biggest motivation
was money right Sal
perks bonuses I thought that was sort of
most the reason why you work you
hopefully work for a little bit of
passion as well but you're getting sort
of trying to pay the bills and so I had
one of my employees who was doing an
amazing job and I was like you know I'm
gonna give her a raise and a bonus she's
been doing such a good job so I it was I
had to move around something budget wise
I really wanted to show her how
appreciative I was we get together and I
say I'm so excited I would love to give
you a raise on bonus and she was like
thanks I was like that's all and then I
discovered this research on resource
theory and so resource theory says that
every interaction every relationship is
a transaction I know that sounds really
terrible but actually it's a very honest
very radically honest way of looking at
relationships and there are six
different resources that we all give and
take these are different in the love
languages this is resources one of them
is money and that's the one that we
think about a lot we talk about it a lot
but what I found out is this particular
employee her primary value was actually
status how'd you find that out so when I
when I realized she was sort of shell
kind of like a lackluster response
shooting clearly you did the thing black
less service wants you're feeling a
little so I can terrible
I actually feel terrible because I went
out of the way to make budget for her I
also really wanted to thank her for her
amazing work and so when she was like
not happy I was like you had to read
through not to lie but like she was
saying thank you yay negative nonverbal
right I was seeing so when we're talking
about nonverbal there's either micro
micro advantages or micro negatives are
several advantages
micro advantages are micro negative
don't give me an example yes like a
micro advantage is if you ask a good
question
I would be like nodding you I'd like
smile I'd be like oh that's great i
widen my eyebrows those are all micro
advantages I'm giving you to say I love
that question okay a micro negative this
is what you probably pick up on without
realizing it are all the things people
do and they don't like a question so
maybe they lean back maybe they make up
more face
maybe they pinch their eyebrows together
every day crinkle their nose up at you
they might turn their head away and bite
their nails those are all micro naked
so I noticed that she wasn't showing any
micro advantages and a couple of micro
negatives which is the exact opposite of
what you would expect you just told
someone they got a raise so I felt
terrible I felt terrible also cuz I was
worried that she was unhappy and did you
notice it right there right there and
then right in the moment work yes and
now that I hopefully just taught that to
you guys I'm very curious if you now
start seeing them right away the nice
thing about a language that doesn't take
a long time once you know what to look
for you see it all the time so I noticed
it right away and I was like oh okay
well um no it will be in your next one
paycheck and you know I'm just so
grateful thank you so much for all your
hard work I've really appreciated your
work and she's like oh yeah it was my
pleasure I love the time people okay
we're good but I felt terrible because I
was worried that she didn't like her job
because I was like what else could be
the reason what else could be the reason
I was like oh my god she's thinking
about quitting on my neuroticism went
crazy when our autism was like she's
going to quit she hates me she hates
science people right like I went all the
way down that route and so when I
stumbled upon this study that maybe I
was looking into motivation I was
reading a white paper on employee
engagement and employee motivation
because I was worried about losing her I
found this resource Siri and I was like
wait a minute
status and I started to think back to
the times which she showed a lot of
micro advantages and one of the times
was when we created an about our team
page and I put pictures of each person
on the page
she was whole excited she was like oh
and you'll get a new headshot I can't
wait like she showed me like 15 headshot
she's like which one has the best body
language she was so excited and I was
like I didn't think much of it at the
time but I was like I wonder fast at it
so I had a meeting with her and I said
radically honest I was like you know I
offered you a raise last month because
I'm so appreciative of your work I don't
know if that was what you wanted is that
what you wanted is that if that if I
want to show you how grateful I am for
you what way can I do that for you here
at work and she said actually and I
really have been wanting a director role
great let's talk about director role
let's get you on a planner we look at
titles so I didn't realize there was all
these other things like putting her name
on the website putting her and more
YouTube videos with me I didn't realize
that that was actually a huge give and
so
easy for me to give because I am so
grateful for her and so for me like it
was like I was so thankful that we were
able to get very quickly very honestly
to what her value was I think this is a
big challenge is figuring out yours and
then also trying to figure out every
single person do you work with including
your friends and family so what's
interesting though is the biggest shock
for me from your book was how I felt
like I had never categorized myself in
such a clear way yeah so what do you do
when the person doesn't know yes so you
are there decoder I think that is the
most fun role that we can play in life
so if you have someone who is not as
self-aware right like they don't know
they hadn't thought about it that way
you get this amazing gift of being able
to unlock forend with them I think
that's a lot of responsibility but I
think that is one of the most amazing
gifts we can give our fellow human
beings what I would do if I were you I
would go through the series of Arthur
Aronson 34 questions every couple should
answer ah so this is a really
interesting study that this researcher
wanted to find out how we get to love
and he found that there are three
different tiers of relationships so in
the first phase of a relationship we're
just trying to figure out interests so
it's like you know do you like that I
like that - what's your hobby and
personality traits that's the first
level that's also why I built the first
level - matrix - personality the second
level are value which is why the next
levels are around appreciation levels
and values so you're trying to figure
out you know where does this person what
do they mean what do they stand for and
the last one is how you relate to them
like how they're how your relationships
can match up so she developed a set of
34 questions to ask to take you through
all three levels through just these
questions alone so we actually have a
list of them I can send you two lists of
them you can we can do them together if
you want one day and you actually go
through each of these converse you're
putting these questions and they will
take you through not only you getting to
know yourself but also them doing a self
exploratory exercise it is the most
amazing two three five hours you will
ever spend with someone going through
these questions and that's I think how
we guide someone to self know themselves
that would be amazing we should put Ally
to that and the show knows I'll be
really really incredible and if you can
it's it's amazing do them all in one
session but it's a lot especially if you
have someone who's more introverted so I
think it's very important to respect
people's natural orientations so if
someone is an introvert that means
they're going to use less words in the
average day it means they're more
private and it means they like to think
through their answers before saying them
extroverts usually don't want don't need
any thinking time before they four they
share in fact they tend to verbalize out
loud so you verbalize outwardly so if
you have an introvert I would highly
recommend some the questions ahead of
time so they can think about them nice
way to respect their personality and or
doing a few at a time I love that yes
what's one thing that people typically
don't know about themselves do you think
everybody should know about themselves
actually it's an we briefly touched on
earlier we didn't get to talk about how
you self-soothe so everyone should know
two aspects of self-soothing the first
is when you are in anxiety whether
you're a high neurotic or a lone erotic
do you like to virt do you like to worry
outwards do you verbalize your worry or
you shut down and close down so when I
am very worried I like to be alone with
my journal which I don't want to talk to
anyone I just well like think about it
myself
we're in other people like to worry with
others right like they like to talk
through their worry and that makes them
feel calm so that's the first thing is
how do you worry do you worry alone or
do worry with others that's going to be
very important that if you're in one of
those really terrible low points we all
hit those points you know exactly which
direction need to do is it out to drinks
with friends you know do you have your
your Brigade that you call or is it home
with a journal and a big glass of wine
those are two very different paths
that's the first thing and the second
thing is how can the people in your life
help you self sooth I think that I don't
miss might be more of a gender thing I
don't know a lot of females a lot of
women in my life
when they're very very anxious they
don't know how to ask for help
both logistically and emotionally what
do you mean how do you legit so there's
two ways of asking for help and maybe my
women in the room will kind of feel
familiar
you look so ronery yeah okay so when a
woman is upset about something
men too usually there's a logistical
issue right like let's say that it's
in-laws coming for the weekend and they
get very stressed out there's logistical
issues but there's also emotional issues
they are different they're very
different in law example so they're
coming that's the logistical the
emotional is so otherwise she'll feel a
little break it down even more more
closely so logistical gotta get the
guest room ready
got to do all the sheets got it from the
towels got to clean the house so my
father-in-law doesn't critique it okay
those are those religious where I would
think about once he starts critiquing in
there already in the house yeah but I'm
with you yeah yeah and women are all
thinking about that way ahead of time
yeah and then the for emotional worries
might be how to make sure that they
actually like the house how to make sure
that we're all going to get along this
weekend how to make sure that we bring
up that issue about health that we
really need to talk about and how do you
make sure that we actually have a
relaxing weekend it's actually a good
time okay those are eight issues but
usually come up around everything
there's all different issues but there
are totally different ways that we sell
suits so logistical how do you who do
you ask for help and how do you ask for
help right like is it going to your
husband or your kids or your best friend
and for emotional issues do you want to
sort of take a few moments take a few
hours meditate do you're saying go for a
run you know eat really healthy that day
to get yourself in the right mind space
or do you want to go out with friends
have a really blow out night and like
kind of work out all your anxiety before
they come if you don't know that you are
going to set yourself up for failure and
you're also setting up the people in
your life for failure so the biggest
mistake that I think couples fight about
you have the same fights over and over
again is they need to ask for help but
they have no idea how to ask for it and
by the way if you don't go through this
that's how you get complete breakdown
because they've been this just bottling
it out they don't know where to go
right I do and that's how you get
someone who's like yelling and running
around before everyone shows up to try
to get things fixed when actually
they're really worried about the
emotional and the question is that you
just walk this through are the questions
they should be asking themselves yes so
very specifically whatever is and you do
this when you're in a point of calm
right not when you're already in the
worried so how do I worry
right do I worry out loud do I worry by
myself who can help me and how can I
help and what are the differences
between my emotional and logistical
worries because they are different IDs
we know that about ourselves we can then
ask for help and better ways and it sets
up everyone in our life for a much more
harmonious relationships yeah that's
fantastic so most of what we've talked
about today is in your book amazing read
this book but there's one thing that
I've heard you mentioned which is a
two-year study of doing unhappiness
which you didn't talk about in the book
yeah do you have any nuggets that you're
ready to talk about yes so I have been
researching happiness for a long time
and that is because I have always been
intrigued by my own happiness levels and
I felt like I always had a base point
but I always felt like you know I was
sort of at a set point and I couldn't go
two points above or two points below
that set point I want to know if there
was ways to hack happiness so we've been
studying happiness for the past two or
three years at our lab some of the most
important thing that I have learned so
far and I'm going to put out more
research on this is this idea of learned
helplessness so there's this horrible
study it was done by Martin Seligman
it's horrible can I share it yeah it's
pretty well okay yeah so this study
looked up dogs and they put the dogs
into a cage with a mat that just very
lightly shocked them and so the dogs
would get on the mat and it was a shock
them very unpleasant experience they put
them in these cages of these shocking
masks and then they changed the cage so
there was a space next to the mat the
dog could move off the mat problem is
the dogs had been on a shocking mat for
a long time just gave up they never went
often that time it is sat and took the
shocks even though they could move off
the mat whereas the dogs that didn't
ever see them out before immediately
jumped off the mat and went to the place
it didn't get the shock the idea of this
is that we end up learning about our
helplessness so when it comes to
happiness we might have learned a
pattern in college or in childhood or in
our 20s or when we were broke when we
were out of a job or whatever that was
and because even though the mats not
there anymore even the shocks aren't
there anymore we stay in the same
position because that's how we've always
learned to be and so when it comes to
happiness
way more than personality way more than
coding people I think that we can
absolutely change our entire happiness
orientation I think we can unlearn our
helplessness to learn to help ourselves
that sounds amazing winner you and I
start putting stuff out on that so I
have one course on that already it's
called the power of happiness and it's
like a it's ten different steps that
we've just started learning about but I
will give you one just to start off with
right now and it's this it's call I call
the skill the chart of happiness so we
end up thinking that happiness comes
with the big vacation once a year or the
big blowout things once every month we
don't realize that actually happiness
comes in these very very small moments
every day and actually that is those the
happens moments we have to savor so that
highly recommends for the next few days
sit down and make a chart of everything
that you do in your life down to making
a steaming hot cup of coffee down to
going for a run down to doing laundry
and then I want you to rank each of
those things on how happy they make you
I don't mean like happiness like
euphoric I mean like happiness like
content with your life like I am content
doing this and it sounds crazy but even
like laundry or cooking some of the
awesome think of as a chore can provide
a certain amount of contentedness if you
look at that look at it that way so way
to rate all of those skills and then I
want you to count up the number of hours
you spend on each of those skills every
day what you'll end up finding as you
end up doing what I call happy mask
happy mask is basically looking at the
fact that we end up spending the
majority of our week you know 90 percent
of our week doing tasks that rank as a
one or two or three not very happy on
the happy scale and we end up having
these really small once a week moments
where we're actually happy but really
there are these small little moments
it's having that amazing cup of coffee
or taking in your view from your window
or whatever these little small things
those minutes add up and I think it's
about slowly hacking how can you add in
more and more of those minutes here's
another kind of tip on the happiness
stuff that I just realize would be a
really easy one to try so other icon
types are these little moments of
happiness there's also these little
moments of unhappiness but as humans we
cannot help
but inspect our entire life so you know
how when you're sitting at a red light
and you literally question your entire
existence about anyone whatever happen
anymore yes so you're sitting in a red
light and you're like why do I sit in
traffic why do I Drive to work why do I
do what I work why am i doing this maybe
I should quit my job maybe I should have
done a white maybe I should have a car
like that's like what happens you know
so one of the hacks that I have found
works really well is taking those small
moments and turning them into what I
call gratitude totems so a totem is like
a symbol or something to remind you of
something so I have a red light by my
house I get stopped at every single day
it doesn't even matter what time of day
and I used to yell at this red light I
would curse at it and then I realized
wait a minute like this light causes me
so much unhappiness I have such a hard
time being grateful like every open
magazine everywhere says be more
grateful who has time to be grateful
right like no one has time to do that
but now I have time so whenever I am
stopped at that red light for the entire
red light I think about every single
thing I'm grateful for and now I get
upset if I do not hit it because I know
that every time pull that red light I
have a minute and a half just think
about all the things I'm grateful for
check I got my gratitude off I feel nice
and good I slipped a very unhappy moment
for me that makes me question driving
cars and my life and turn it into
something that actually makes me very
appreciative that is brilliant
yeah all right where can these guys find
you online everything is that science of
people calm so that's our lab and we do
experiments come play in our in our lab
we always have experiments running we
love for people to I think right now
we're doing a vocal power quiz I know
yeah I'm not going to tell you what it
is but you have to go check it out it's
very cool and we are just very
appreciative for all of your support and
comments so if you have any feedback let
me know awesome and last question what
is the impact that you want to have on
the world I want to wake people up I
think that my entire job is to try to
get people out of zom being through
social interactions I think a lot of
times we have conversations on autopilot
we interact with people on social
scripts and so my one goal the impact I
wish I could have
is to wake people up out of their social
interactions so they actually have
quality conversations and quality
interactions and not just quantity
amazing Vanessa thank you so thank you
guys let me tell you this is somebody
that you were going to want to dive
deeply into like I said earlier when I
started the book I was doing it to make
sure that I understood the content so
that I could come on and do a great
interview and it so carried me away I
literally want to say captivate ever
that thank you
it is literally captivating I book about
becoming captivating will arrest you it
will stop you because every bit of it
and I felt like the book was trying to
teach me a lot about other people but it
was teaching me so much about myself and
I am somebody that obsessively thinks
about self-awareness and where I'm at
what I understand about myself and my
natural impulses and what can be
overcome and what's not worth fighting
and this book
broke everything down and made it all so
easy to understand and if you really
want to have a good time drop her name
into YouTube and just watch the videos
one after the other after the other it
is the closest thing to being able to
literally just let something autoplay
every video that it selects that I've
ever come across
she is so good at explaining these
incredibly useful ways that humans are
you will find it infinitely useful in
all of the relationships in your life is
going to make you better is going to
make your relationships better it isn't
saying I can't recommend it enough so
please guys dive into that one and this
is a weekly show so if you haven't
already be sure to subscribe and until
next time my friends goodbye summer okay
everybody's thanks so much for joining
us for another episode of impact Theory
if this content is adding value to your
life our one ask is that you go to
iTunes and stitcher and rate and review
not only does that help us build this
community which at the end of the day is
all we care about but it also helps us
get even more amazing guests on here to
show their knowledge with all of us
thank you guys so much for being a part
of this community and until next time be
legendary my friend
[Music]